Docs for counting non-entity tokens in the Activity Log (#13007)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/concepts/client-count.mdx

### Non-entity Tokens

> If you chose to use the [Token Auth Method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/token) without an identity, a non-entity token, to avoid driving up client count, always assign each token to a role and entity alias. HashiCorp recommends creating a [Token Role](https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/auth/token#create-update-token-role) first, with allowable entity aliases and issuing your token with the appropriate [role and entity alias name](https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/auth/token#create-token). This is the name that will uniquely identify the client, no matter how many tokens are issued. See more on entity alias below.

Reviewer: `...without an identity, a non-entity token,...` is a bit confusing for me to read (not sure why the `, a non-entity token,` bit is there. could this be rephrased to be a bit more clear?

i know this was already there, but reading it now makes me think it can be improved

The number of active clients using a Vault cluster is the total of:

- active entities: identity entities that create a token via a login

> - active non-entity tokens: clients associated with tokens created via a method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- active non-entity clients: clients associated with tokens created via a method
```

Author: So here I purposefully kept this as `active non-entity tokens`, the reason for this being that the API will currently display these as `non_entity_tokens` . Thus, I wanted the documentation to convey essentially that "the active non-entity tokens count maps to clients associated with tokens, as opposed to just tokens".

that is not associated with an entity

Prior to Vault 1.6, this metric could only be measured from the audit log, using the
`vault-advisor` tool. Starting with Vault 1.6, the number of clients per month, or for
a contiguous sequence of months, can be measured by Vault itself.

As of Vault 1.9, the total client count should always be measured using Vault itself. The

> metrics shown by the Vault UI should be regarded as the source of truth for this data. 

Reviewer: `are the source of truth` rather than `should be regarded as the source of truth`?

Please refer to [Vault Usage Metrics](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/vault/usage-metrics) for a
step-by-step tutorial and description of how to use the UI.

## Measuring clients

Each time a token is used, Vault checks to see whether it belongs to an identity entity
that has already been active in the current month. New entities are added to a log in Vault storage

> periodically. Tokens without entities are tracked separately and added to the "non-entity token" count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
periodically. Tokens without entities are tracked separately and added to the "non-entity client" count.
```

Author: Same comment as above -- I believe we should keep this as is.

> Please see the 'Tracking non-entity tokens' subsection below for a detailed explanation of how such

Reviewer 2: comment for line above actually
`non-entity token` --> `non-entity tokens` ?

Author: Ah, good call!

[AppRole](/docs/auth/approle) instead of handing out directly-created tokens. Ensure that entities and
[entity aliases](/api/secret/identity/entity-alias) exist for all login methods used to create batch tokens.

### Tracking non-entity tokens

As of Vault 1.9, non-entity tokens are tracked as unique clients based on the policies the token
has access to and the namespace in which it was created. Non-entity tokens that are assigned 
the same set of policies and are created in the same namespace will be tracked as the same client. 

> Conversely, if two non-entity tokens have a different policy set or are created in different namespaces

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Conversely, if two non-entity tokens have a different policy set or are created in different namespaces,
```

they will be tracked as two separate clients. 

Please note that before the release of Vault 1.9, non-entity tokens were each tracked separately. That is 
to say, two non-entity tokens would always be counted as two separate clients.

## Auditing clients

> As of Vault 1.9, the Vault Audit Log will contain a `client_id` field in the request. The `client_id` field

Reviewer: i think you can write `contains`, rather than `will contain`. here and on the next line (and if similar language is used in other places)

will contain an Entity ID for requests that are made with tokens with entities, or a unique client ID for 
non-entity tokens. 

Consumers of the audit log will be able to distinguish between these two types of client IDs by comparing
the value in the `client_id` with the value of the `entity_id` in the `Auth` section of the response. If 
the two values are the same, then the `client_id` is an `entity_id`. If not, then the `client_id` was 
generated from the use of a non-entity token. 

> An empty `client_id` field in a request means that vault did not track a client for that 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An empty `client_id` field in a request means that Vault did not track a client for that 
```

[AppRole](/docs/auth/approle) instead of handing out directly-created tokens. Ensure that entities and
[entity aliases](/api/secret/identity/entity-alias) exist for all login methods used to create batch tokens.

### Tracking non-entity tokens

As of Vault 1.9, non-entity tokens are tracked as unique clients based on the policies the token
has access to and the namespace in which it was created. Non-entity tokens that are assigned 
the same set of policies and are created in the same namespace will be tracked as the same client. 
Conversely, if two non-entity tokens have a different policy set or are created in different namespaces
they will be tracked as two separate clients. 

Please note that before the release of Vault 1.9, non-entity tokens were each tracked separately. That is 
to say, two non-entity tokens would always be counted as two separate clients.

## Auditing clients

As of Vault 1.9, the Vault Audit Log will contain a `client_id` field in the request. The `client_id` will

> be empty for requests that are untracked by the Audit Log. Such requests are unauthenticated requests / 

Reviewer 4: This is confusing: if the request isn't tracked by the audit log, why do we need to talk about its client_id field being blank, why should I (the reader) care?

Author: Yeah, I should reword this -- basically, if a request uses a root token or a wrapped token, the client_id (a non-entity token which won't get a client_id and be tracked in the activity log, the client_id field in the request will be "". Initially I was thinking it might be good to let the reader know the cases in which they'll see an empty client_id field. Do you think it's worth adding something in about that?

> login requests, requests made with the root token, and wrapped requests. The `client_id` field can also 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
login requests, requests made with the root token, and wrapped requests. The `client_id` field will
```

contain an Entity ID for requests that are made with tokens with entities, or a unique client ID for 

> non-entitiy tokens. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
non-entity tokens. 
```

Consumers of the audit log will be able to distinguish between a non-entity `client_id` and a 
`client_id` that is also an entity IDs by either:
A. Comparing the value of the `client_id` in the request with the value of the `entity_id` in the `Auth`
section of the response and checking if they are the same.

> B. Checking that the format of the `client_id` is `xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx`(this signifies 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
B. Checking that the format of the `client_id` is `xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx` (this signifies 
```

> B. Checking that the format of the `client_id` is `xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx`. This signifies 

Reviewer 4: Do we need option B?  I'd rather they treat client_id as an opaque value rather than becoming attached to its current form.

Author: Nope, option A should definitely be enough. I'll remove option B!

> that the `client_id` is an `entity_id`, versus a `client_id` which appears to be a base64 encoding 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that the `client_id` is an `entity_id`. A `client_id` which appears to be a base64 encoding 
```

Reviewer: this suggestion is a bit strange since the stuff is in parens, but it didn't read right to me as it was

Author: Definitely! Removed the parens to make this more clear.
